In this video, we're going to try implementing option number three inside of our application.
So we're going to take our query service down.
We're then going to try to create some number of posts and some number of comments as well.
We're then going to launch our query service and we're going to try to make sure that the query service
can reach out to the event bus and tell it.
Give me all the events that have occurred up to this point in time.
And I want to remind you that we are putting together a home grown version of an event bus.
So there are real open source projects, very production quality in nature that are going to do a lot
of what we are discussing right here in a much more automated and well intentioned fashion that within
what we are doing currently so all you and I are doing are trying to get a sense of what is going on
here.
You should not use this code that we're about to write in a production environment.
I just want you to have an idea of what is going on behind the scenes.
The first thing we're going to do is to make sure that whenever our event bus receives an event, we
are going to store it inside of an array.
We're then going to add in a new endpoint to our event bus, an endpoint that can allow us to retrieve
all the events that have ever occurred.
Well, then make sure that whenever we launch the query service, we'll have it reach out to the event
bus and request all the events that have occurred, and we'll make sure that the query service attempts
to process all that data.
So let's get to it.
The first thing we're going to do is open up our event bus and make sure that we store all the different
events that we collect over time.
So back inside my editor, I'll find the event bus implementation.
So here's indexes.
Right above our post request handler where we deal with incoming events.
I'm going to simply create a new variable called events and will have it be an array like so.
So we're going to take every single incoming event and throw it into this array.
Then inside of our post request handler.
We'll take a look at the event that we receive and we will push it into that array.
So we'll do an events dot push event.
So now critically, the most recent event is going to be at the end of this array.
The first event that we receive will be at the very front of the array.
We're then going to create another endpoint on this event bus to retrieve all the events that have ever
occurred.
So after that existing post request handler.
I'll put in an AppKit for events with rec and rez, and then if anyone ever makes a request to splash
events right here, we will simply respond with that big list of events.
Now again, one.
Repeat what I said just 2 minutes ago.
Real implementations of event buses are way more complex than what we have right here.
This is just to give you a sense of this approach of trying to synchronize services after they've been
out of service, down, not even in existence or whatever else.
Okay.
So now let's go over to our query service.
I'm going to close that file.
I'll go over to the query service and open up the indexed JS file.
The first thing we're going to do inside of here is extract some of the logic that we have inside of
our host events, root handler right now.
So inside of here, we've got a lot of code that knows exactly how to deal with or handle any given
event that's all localized directly inside this post request handler right now.
But we're going to need to very quickly process events in some different locations inside this file.
Long story short, we're going to take all these if statements and extract them into a separate helper
function.
So inside this post events, I'm going to find the first if statement.
I'm going to go down to the bottom if statement right here.
I'm going to cut all that.
And so I'm just left with type data, a console log and the send right there.
I'm then going to define a new function right underneath posts and I'll call it handle event.
And then I'm going to paste all the stuff that we just cut inside of that function.
Now this function is going to need access to the data of the event and the type as well.
So I'm going to assume that we're going to provide the type and the data as arguments to handle event.
Then finally back inside of our post request handler here is right here.
We're going to delete that console log, which we don't really need anymore.
And I'll replace it with a call to handle event.
And I will pass in the type and data.
So all we just did is extract all that event, handling data into a reusable function.
Okay.
So now last thing we need to do whenever our query service comes online and it starts listening on Port
4002.
Right after that would probably be a pretty good time to make a request over to our event bus and try
to get a listing of all the different events that have been emitted up to this point in time.
So right after we do that console.log, I'm going to add in and await Axios dot get we're going to reach
out to http slash local host 4005 events.
That's going to give us all the events that have occurred over time.
Remember, we're making a gift request right here.
It was sign that to some rose variable.
I'm going to make sure I also mark the enclosing function as async.
And then finally we're going to iterate through all the events that have occurred using a simple for
of loop.
We can also do a for each whatever you want to do.
But in this case I'll just use a four of very simple, straightforward, so let's say let event of rez
dot data.
Remember whenever we use Axios, the response or the actual data we get back is available on the data
property of this response.
So then inside of here, maybe first we could do a quick council log and say something like processing
event.
And then event type.
And then right after that, we'll go ahead and actually handle the event.
So handle event.
We'll put in the event type in the event data.
And that should be it.
Okay.
So let's save this.
This is kind of a long video, so we'll take a quick pause right here and then test it out in just a
moment.